>> Scott Moss: All right, so, before we
hop in the challenge, I'm just gonna walk
through some GraphQL stuff so we can
actually explore and see what's going on.
Okay, so what you're looking at here,
who seen this before?
Okay.
So this is called GraphiQL,
it's like a play on words,
it's GraphiQL, they threw an I in there,
graphical, it's pretty funny.
But basically this is, remember I
said GraphQL has interactive docs?
This is it.
This is GraphQL's interactive docs.
So this is actually the API,
the graph API,
the GraphiQL API that
you'll be building today.
This is on the last solution bands and
I just have it pulled up.
And with this what we can do is we
can actually explore GraphQL and
we can see a couple things.
So I'm gonna give you a tour right quick.
So what we have here on the left is where
we can write our GraphQL quiries and
mutations and
we're gonna do that in just a second.
Over here on the right we have the results
of those queries and mutations.
So when you execute them,
the results that the server responds
with will be printed here on the right.
Down below, if you drag this up,
we have a little place where we can inject
variables into our queries and mutations.
And variables are things
that you will need to do.
For instance, you wanna do filtering,
you would put that in a variable.
If you needed to pass an ID because you
wanted to get this song by this ID,
you would put that in a variable.
Things that are dynamic, they have
to be injected into your queries.
Those are variables.
Up here we have this play button
which executes the query.
This prettify button just prettifies your
query, so it's like nice and formatted.
History allows you to go back.
And then the best part is
this Docs tab over here.
So click on Docs.
Most likely or most depending on what
type of GraphQL API you're looking at.
You're either gonna see query and
mutation or you're gonna see root.
In our example we're gonna see query and
mutation because we are not doing what's
called a relay based GraphQL API.
Relay is a framework that Facebook
made in conjunction with GraphQL.
It's a client side GraphQL
implementation that implements
GraphQL slightly differently using
edges and nodes like a true graph.
We're not gonna do that.
We're just gonna keep it
simple with a GraphQL API.
So you'll see query mutations.
So these are the roots.
So remember what I said queries are?
Anybody remember?
>> Speaker 2: They get data.
>> Scott Moss: They get data.
So in our case, get one, get all, right?
So I click on query,
you'll see these functions here that like
mean absolutely nothing to you right now.
But let's read through the syntax and
try to figure out what's going on.
So let's look at this first one,
it says get me.
And then, it's got this semicolon,
and user with an exclamation.
Basically what this is saying is,
hey, if you click on query, you have
a query, its name is called get me.
And its return value is a user type.
And this exclamation, this bang here,
is saying it's non-null.
It cannot be null.
If there is no user,
it's probably gonna throw an error.
It's never gonna return a null user,
that's never gonna be null.
It's either gonna be a user or
it's gonna throw an error.
It's never gonna be empty,
that's what that's saying.
So that's the syntax for this.
So if you go down to the next one,
this one is called song and
you see these parenthesis there.
You probably guessed,
these are the arguments that it takes.
It takes an argument called ID and
its type is an ID type and
that then means that it's required.
It's a required argument.
You have to pass it in and its return type
is the song which is also non-null, right.
Down here below in the next one,
allSongs is a function.
It returns an array of songs,
and that array is now null.
So there might not be any songs in the
array, but there will always be an array.
That's what that's saying.
There will always be an array,
even if there might not be anything in it.
If I wanted to say that I want
there always to be a song,
I could have put a bang after
the G in song, which means
it's going to be a non null array, and
there will always be something in it.
But, that's not the case.
>> Scott Moss: Any questions on
that stuff?
Yes.
>> Speaker 3: So, the non null,
you said if there's an error.
How is that actually handled?
>> Scott Moss: So, the way the non null
works is, when you resolve these data
types for GraphQL and it goes back through
GraphQL before it goes to the client
GraphQL will see, it'll look at the thing
you gave it, and it'll be like, based on
the schema, this thing can be non null.
You gave me back a null value,
so it'll break.
It'll break right there, and
the client will get an error and
say cannot have non null value for user.
And the server will get
an error with the same thing.
So that's one way it'll break.
The other way is, you actually throw the
error yourself inside of your resolver.
So you can say hey, I went to go get me,
but I could not get me,
so I'm just gonna throw
an error right quick.
So it's totally up to
you how you wanna do it.
You can let GraphQL handle that non null
error for you, or you can catch the error
yourself on the resolver and throw
a more descriptive error to the client.
But yeah, by default,
if you return a null value for
a non null type, GraphQL will break.
Anymore questions on this stuff?
We're gonna keep going.
All right, so let's use one of these.
So let's say I wanna do a query on getMe.
Let's first see what a user is.
So if click on user, you can see that
here all the properties of a user, right?
Now the user type was
not built into GraphQL.
GraphQL out just like any language
out there has primitive types or
what they call in GraphQL scholar types.
Scholar types are ttypes
that are built into GraphQL.
And those types are very basic,
you can pretty much use them
in almost any language.
You have strings, you have integers,
floats, IDs, and booleans.
And then you have enums,
which are just constants, right?
So those are all primitive
types in GraphQL.
Anything else that's not that,
is a type that we made.
So this user type, we made that type.
This song type, we made that type.
This playlist type, we made that.
ID, that's a scholar type,
that's built in.
So the way GraphQL works is whenever you
try to resolve a type that is non-scholar,
you have to manually return that,
you have to manually create that type.
Anything that is scalar,
is resolved automatically for
you because it's just a value.
If it's non-scalar,
this basically means it's an object.
Everything that's non-scalar like users,
song, playlist,
that's an object and you have to
describe the shape of that object.
So in our case,
we said a user looks like this.
It has an ID, a username,
an array of playlists.
Created an updated app, right?
So that's how we describe
the shape of the user.
We're all gonna do this.
So this is like, so if you're like,
I can't follow along right now,
that's totally fine,
I'm just giving you some context so
that we can actually start working on it.
So let's do a query request,
let's jump right into it.
There's two ways to do a query, well
there's a couple of ways to do a query and
depending on what your needs are.
Our needs are just to check it out, so the
way we're gonna do it first is we're just
gonna use this empty object like this.
Most things in GraphQL start off using
this syntax unless you do names,
query, or mutations.
And then, we follow it by the name
of the query we wanna do.
So in this case I wanna do getMe.
And you see,
I get some autocomplete there.
So I'll hit Enter.
That'll do the getMe query.
And because getMe returns
a non-scholar type,
which is user, and we said if
it's not scholar it's an object,
we have to tell GraphQL what properties
on that object do we want back?
So if we just ran this right now,
I think by default,
GraphiQL will automatically stick in
the ID property for us by default.
But most clients won't do that.
So now we have to say cool,
run the getMe query and then from that
I wanna get the ID property of the user
and you can see it auto completed.
Also I wanna get the username
property from the query.and it
also auto completed that.
Then I can hit Play or
hit Cmd+Enter and I can execute.
And I get an error because we haven't
implemented this on our server yet.
So this would go and
fetch the current user that's
signed in with the JSON web token and
actually get that user.
But you can see here
the format that it responds,
if we were to get data
you see data right here.
And this would be your
query with the data but
if you have an error,
this is how it responds.
This is very unlike REST
because the way REST works is,
you kind of look at the status codes for
the error.
So you're like, it's a 401, it's a 403.
You don't get status codes, you probably
just get back a 200 almost every time.
And then you've just got to
look at the errors object.
So it completely changes how
you would handle errors.
So I mean it's totally up to you as well.
You can totally set back the headers,
and stuff like that if you want.
But GraphQL uses this errors
properties here to determine
what errors to send back,
and stuff like that.
All right, so
let's try another query here.
Let's try to do the all songs query here.
So we'll say that.
We'll say all songs.
You can see it auto completes.
All songs doesn't take any arguments, so
I can go ahead and get the properties
that I want on all songs.
All songs returns an array of all songs.
So if I go look at a song,
what does a song have?
It has an ID, a title, a URL, an album.
Cool.
Let me get the ID of that.
Let me get the URL.
And I'll also get the title and
I can run that.
And because I don't have
any songs on the server,
it just sends back an array of nothing,
because we don't have any songs.
We actually have to create some songs.
So you can see here we
get back a data property.
And then this name right here allSongs,
that name is generated because that's
the name of the query that we executed.
So it's data.allSongs.
If we don't want it to say all songs,
we can actually alias this and
we can say you know what?
Just call it songs.
And the way you do that is you
just put the alias that you want
with a semicolon in front of the query.
And now when you run it,
you can see now it just says songs.
I think that's something so
simple but yet very powerful.
This allows you to like get
data from your server and
immediately pass it into your client
without doing a lot of transformations.
Depending on who implemented
your server and how they did it.
So, let's actually create some songs so
we can query this.
So the next thing we'll do
is we'll do a mutation.
And mutations are a little different.
You need to use the mutation keyword here.
And then this name right here, you give it
a name, because what you need to do is,
you can save these mutations,
you can save these queries on your client.
And most clients used
names to reference them.
So this name that I'm about to give it,
you can give it whatever you want.
The convention is to use title case.
So I'm just gonna call this, CreateSong.
I was gonna call it CreateSong, but
you can call it whatever you want.
This is not a strict typing thing.
And then you have to describe if any
arguments what those arguments would be.
And because it's a mutation most likely
you'd probably have some arguments.
So the way that works is you
use this dollar sign like this.
This dollar sign means
I'm making a variable.
It's a placeholder for a variable.
And I will say this create song and
actually, let's go look
at the mutation here.
We can go look at the mutation and
we can say, new song right there.
It takes the argument called input and
its type is newSong.
NewSong is not a scholar type.
We talked about the six scholar types,
newSong is not one of those,
that means it's an object.
If it's not a scholar type,
it's probably an object.
So, newSong,
we can click on that to see what that is.
It takes a title or URL or album or
artist or rating or favorite.
None of them are required.
So let's just do that.
So we'll say, this takes input.
Its type is right here, NewSong!
with an exclamation.
So we must satisfy that.
We'll say NewSong!
with an exclamation.
And then now this is where we
actually run our mutation.
And the mutation is called NewSong!
So we'll say newSong, and
it takes in an input whose value
is that dollar input variable.
That gives us the newSong.
And because newSong, the actual mutation,
returns a song type, we can describe
what properties we want back.
So I'm gonna say I want back the ID,
I want back the title,
and I want back the URL.
So I'm gonna do that.
And then down below it, now I have to pass
in this input object, with the variables.
So down here I'll say, cool,
I need a variable called input, and
auto complete it for me.
And we know that input is type newSong.
So if we go look at that, you'll see
that it needs to have some of this.
So I'm gonna give it a title,
you'll see it auto completed and
like dance, dance is the name.
And then I'll also gonna give it a URL to
the song.
>> Scott Moss: I was gonna just put
something here.
>> Scott Moss: Cool.
And then I'm also gonna give it an artist.
So we got that, we got the input.
It satisfies the type of newSong.
We bound it to the input
variable in the mutation.
We expanded on the return type and
asked for an ID and a title URL.
And now we can go ahead and
try this mutation.
I'm actually not sure if this is on
the branch that I'm on if it is actually
created or not, but let's run it.
And yeah it is.
So we got back the results of a new
mutation, we created a new song here.
So now we have the new song, here's
the ID we get back because I asked for
the ID, here's the title we
get back that I created, and
here's the URL that we get back.
So now if I go back up to this query
above and initiate the songs again.
I should get back at least one song.
And there it is.
>> Scott Moss: And
if I don't wanna get the title,
I don't have to get the title, it's gone.
You can ask for it the way you want it.
>> Scott Moss: That was a quick
walk through for
some of the stuff we'll do in GraphQL.
So now that you have some
context we're gonna go in and
we're actually gonna start building this.
So you're not expected to remember any
of the stuff that I just showed you.
I just wanted you to have some context
that way you're not just swimming in
the dark.
Any questions on this stuff?
Who here is excited about GraphQL so far?
Okay, all right.
Yeah.
Once I saw this,
I was just like why would
anybody use REST ever again.
This is so much better,
it's almost magical!
Then I built, I remember the first time I
built a GraphQL server from the back end.
I was like, okay, now I get it.
This is still pretty magical.